README.md, before:

# crowbook-text-processing

[![Travis status](https://img.shields.io/travis/lise-henry/crowbook-text-processing.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/lise-henry/crowbook-text-processing)

Some utilities functions for processing texts.

These functions were originally written for
[Crowbook](https://github.com/lise-henry/crowbook), but have
been published on a separate crate and under a less restrictive
license (MPL instead of LGPL) so they can be used elsewhere.

## Example

```rust
use crowbook_text_processing::{
    FrenchFormatter,
    escape_html,
    escape_tex,
    remove_whitespaces,
    typographic_quotes,
    ellipsis,
};

let s = " Some  string with  too much   whitespaces & around 1% \
         characters that might cause trouble to HTML or LaTeX.";
// Remove unnecessary whitespaces (but doesn't trim at is can have meaning)
let new_s = remove_whitespaces(s);
// Escape forHTML
println!("for HTML: {}", escape_html(new_s.clone()));
// Escape for LaTeX
println!("for LaTeX: {}", escape_tex(new_s));

// Replace quotes with typographic quotation marks
let s = r#"Some "quoted string" and 'another one'."#;
let new_s = typographic_quotes(s);
assert_eq!(&new_s, "Some “quoted string” and ‘another one’.");

// Replace three consecutive dots with ellipsis character
let s = ellipsis("Foo...");
assert_eq!(&s, "Foo…");

// Format whitespaces according to french typographic rules, using
// the appropriate non-breaking spaces where needed
let s = " Une chaîne en français ! On voudrait un résultat \
         « typographiquement correct ».";
let french = FrenchFormatter::new();
println!("for text: {}", french.format(s));
println!("for LaTeX: {}", escape_tex(french.format_tex(s)));
```

## Requirements

* `rustc >= 1.6.0`

## Semantic versioning

While not yet at version `1.0`, this crates tries to follows semantic
versioning in the following way:

* an increase of `x` in `0.x.y` means breaking changes.
* an increase of `y` in `0.x.y` means non-breaking changes.

Commit message:

Add link to docs.rs

README.md, after:

# crowbook-text-processing

[![Travis status](https://img.shields.io/travis/lise-henry/crowbook-text-processing.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/lise-henry/crowbook-text-processing)

[See the full library documentation on Docs.rs.](https://docs.rs/crowbook-text-processing)

Some utilities functions for processing texts.

These functions were originally written for
[Crowbook](https://github.com/lise-henry/crowbook), but have
been published on a separate crate and under a less restrictive
license (MPL instead of LGPL) so they can be used elsewhere.

## Example

```rust
use crowbook_text_processing::{
    FrenchFormatter,
    escape_html,
    escape_tex,
    remove_whitespaces,
    typographic_quotes,
    ellipsis,
};

let s = " Some  string with  too much   whitespaces & around 1% \
         characters that might cause trouble to HTML or LaTeX.";
// Remove unnecessary whitespaces (but doesn't trim at is can have meaning)
let new_s = remove_whitespaces(s);
// Escape forHTML
println!("for HTML: {}", escape_html(new_s.clone()));
// Escape for LaTeX
println!("for LaTeX: {}", escape_tex(new_s));

// Replace quotes with typographic quotation marks
let s = r#"Some "quoted string" and 'another one'."#;
let new_s = typographic_quotes(s);
assert_eq!(&new_s, "Some “quoted string” and ‘another one’.");

// Replace three consecutive dots with ellipsis character
let s = ellipsis("Foo...");
assert_eq!(&s, "Foo…");

// Format whitespaces according to french typographic rules, using
// the appropriate non-breaking spaces where needed
let s = " Une chaîne en français ! On voudrait un résultat \
         « typographiquement correct ».";
let french = FrenchFormatter::new();
println!("for text: {}", french.format(s));
println!("for LaTeX: {}", escape_tex(french.format_tex(s)));
```

## Requirements

* `rustc >= 1.6.0`

## Semantic versioning

While not yet at version `1.0`, this crates tries to follows semantic
versioning in the following way:

* an increase of `x` in `0.x.y` means breaking changes.
* an increase of `y` in `0.x.y` means non-breaking changes.
